# DSCI 532 - Visualization II
## Group 204 Reflection

Version 1 of the "V is for Vino" app is an effective interactive dashboard, allowing any wine enthusiast to explore the best wines the United States has to offer. The initial goal of the app was to answer the following questions: which specific regions in the United States produce the best wines? Which regions provide the best value? What grape varieties consistently get high ratings? Using this app we were able to explore all of these questions and more. The app does differ from the original sketch, as is expected since we did not know the full limitations of the data, our time, and the Altair documentation when first proposing the app. Despite these differences,the main functionalities of the app remain the same.

We included both the geographic and wine feature analysis, but decided to separate these analyses fully using different tabs instead of having them be interactive. The separation of these analyses is due to lack of documentation for interactive choropleths. In the future we hope to add a clickable element which would display dynamic charts to view the data for each state. It would also be useful for future apps to have a table in which the user could filter and retrieve wines that meet a specific criteria. Another feature that would provide valuable information would be to include dynamic histograms for the points and price of the wines, showing a distribution based on region, variety, and winery.

During milestone 2, the TA offered a number of valid suggestions about the potential functionality of the app. For instance, in newer versions of the app we would like to distinguish between red and white wine. This suggestion was discussed prior to the TA's feedback, but we decided against it for this version of the app. There are lots of varieties, so it would have taken too much time to correctly categorize all wines in the dataset, and we wanted to focus our attention on implementing interactive dash components. The TA also suggested we expand our analyses to other countries in the dataset. We hope to implement this feature in newer versions of the app when we might have a larger wine dataset. In our current dataset, there are few observations and a fair amount of missing data outside of the US, which led to us subsetting our dataset to only US values during data wrangling. 

During milestone 3 we received valuable feedback from our peers on the functionality and ease of use of our app. Most of our peers noted that our app is aesthetically-pleasing, has nice features, and has an intuitive layout, but some found that there is not enough instruction on how to use the interactive components of the app. We were also given conflicting feedback that the app was too "wordy". Given that the room was noisy and there was limited time, we took both these pieces of feedback with a grain of salt. However, we did add further point-form instruction to clarify how to use the drop-down menus, toggle buttons, and slider bar on the bar chart and heatmap. Furthermore, the users also thought the app could use a few additional features, such as more detailed information on the map and the ability to display particular bottles of wine on the charts. Unfortunately, it was not possible to display too many details on the map because some states are underepresented, which would lead to exaggerated values. However, we hope to add a clickable interactive addition to the map in a future version of the app, in which new charts would be produced based on which state was clicked on. As expected, users also wanted to be able to see the different bottles of wines displayed on the charts, as this functionality would make our app more useful in deciding which bottle of wine to buy. This is the ultimate goal of our app, as we want our users to base their future wine-buying decisions on the data exploration they do in our app. Adding in a search function for the database to display results will be a large undertaking and we did not have time to complete this during our app maintenance this week, but we plan to release this feature in an upcoming version.

Based off the feedback we received in milestone 3 and group discussion, we came up with a maintenance strategy. The action items in this strategy included improving the aesthetic and user interface, refactoring the codebase to adhere to PEP-8 format, and re-organizing the file tree for better organizational structure. No real bug fixes were required. Additional features of the app were deemed too time-consuming and were therefore postponed to future releases. We fulfilled the action items in our strategy by adding descriptions/instructions, editing plot titles, making plot titles consistent (i.e. `Rating` and `Points` were changed to just `Rating`), formatted the code to PEP-8, and re-structured the file tree to move source code files to `src` and made a separate theme module to reference our chart style theme.

Overall, we are happy with how version 1 of our app turned out. Although we were not able to add all the features we wanted, our app still answers our initial research questions and provides valuable information to the user. Additionally, the results from our peer feedback found no major bugs or issues with the app, which speaks to the quality of our app. The users also recognized the effort we put into making `V is for Vino` visually pleasing, and the appearance of our app didn't require much improvement. 

